you're at the listening post we begin
with a viewer
warning we will be examining some of the
ugliest imagery that's been coming out
of
Gaza journalists are being killed in the
strip at a horrific rate just look at
the
numbers and a Palestinian citizen of
Israel on the toxic media scene there
the clamp down on freedom of speech
Israel's ethnic cleansing of Gaza goes
on the devastation deepens according to
the health Ministry there more than
18,000 Palestinians have now been killed
by Israeli bombs of the survivors the
United Nations says that half are going
hungry deprived of sufficient Aid
because of Israel's blockade the
incarceration bombing and starvation of
pales Palestinians in Gaza on grounds of
ethnicity is why experts in previous
genocides are calling this one what it
is and what sets gaza's suffering apart
is the media age in which this is
occurring one of social media and
smartphone ubiquity we're getting this
Story in real time Gaz and civilians
broadcasting their own bombardment
Israeli soldiers streaming sadistic acts
of humiliation proof of an historic
crime taking place while there is still
time to stop it the global outrage
dwarfs what architects of any previous
genocide have had to contend with the
question that Palestinians are asking
urgently is whether any of that will
make a
difference this is the first genocide
that we see in real time and it's the
victims themselves who are recording
their own genocide appearing on camera
talking about what has happened to their
families to convey the reality no matter
how solid how no matter how difficult no
matter how Bloody to the rest of the
world even with their own dying
breaths picking up your phone these days
and going through your social media
feeds comes with risks such as finding
yourself scrolling through a genocide
seeing what it's like to live under
bombardment in a war zone that's more
like a killing field where one side has
almost all of the Firepower and
Vengeance on its
mind where the fear is constant the
prospect of starvation more real by the
day Israel has locked international news
crews out of Gaza Palestinians are
locked in which makes the footage they
capture on their phones invaluable
however difficult it may be to
watch
traditionally all the images that we
receive of Wars have been filtered down
through governments or through
mainstream media this time around it's
completely different and now you see
people around the world particularly
young people foregoing traditional media
channels why would I go through the
mainstream media when I could just get
it directly from social media and from
people on the ground there the fact that
Western media have failed in in giving
truthful accurate coverage of what is
going on and have failed in informing
the public of um the larger picture of
the Palestinian struggle for for Freedom
drove a lot of people to social media
there's ample evidence of of atrocity
that's happening in um in Gaza but the
way that this evidence is is reported on
is highly ideological we are not used to
see this this quantity of images by the
victims calling for help or calling to
stop the genocide so it puts us in a new
situation that obviously those who
understand what they they are looking at
those who are not victims of the Israeli
propaganda machine they are enraged and
we see huge protest people in the
streets in support of Palestine but
alongside this rage we have a European
and American governments who are
continuing to support this
genocide as for the Israeli social media
space it has become a breeding ground
for anti-palestinian
hatred ever since hamas's attacks on
October 7th there have been calls for
Revenge there that are now being
answered and celebrated soldiers posting
videos showing the humiliation of
Palestinian civilians laughing as they
bulldoze cars and buildings taunting a
terrified population the Israeli
newspaper haet reported that one Israeli
army unit has its own telegram channel
that puts out similar stuff material
that's meant to mask a lack of progress
on the the battlefield setbacks like the
ambush in Shaya Northern Gaza this week
that killed 10 Israeli soldiers
homicidal language is also proving
popular on Israel's music charts through
songs and lyrics like
this that track is at number one in a
country where singers and soldiers can
now make it big on social media by
either calling for violence or dishing
it out you have the Israeli soldiers
themselves posting their Spoils of War
on social media that are in direct
contradiction to the official Israeli
military narrative which is one of a
just moral war against Hamas videos of
them looting homes stealing jewelry
describing Palestinian women as [__]
while digging through intimate items
inside their homes images men to
Galvanize Israeli society and bring more
support um from the hom front towards
these Israeli soldiers who are clearly
on this Path of Revenge in Gaza the way
that Palestinians are being perceived uh
in these songs the references to them as
dogs and cockroaches and particular
references to to uh biblical and and
historical uh
[Music]
[Applause]
context
um it's terrifying it it makes you
realize that this is not about what
happened in October 7 there's something
much deeper and much older than Al all
of this and I think it is actually
notable that a lot of pro Palestine
Twitter is simply just sharing um
Israeli social media output because the
Israeli soldiers and the Israeli
officials themselves are making it very
clear what their intention is they're
celebrating Palestinian death and
displacement so there is no need for for
anyone to kind of add an explanation
they're just sharing what we're
seeing images like this which can evoke
the
unthinkable Palestinian men in Northern
Gaza initially purported to be Hamas
Fighters stripped to the Bare Essentials
by Israeli soldiers put to shame a group
we later learned included a well-known
doctor a journalist academics the
Israeli military says it did not release
the images intentionally that some of
its soldiers posted them on social media
and that doing so was needless and
humiliating however that telegram
channel the one reportedly controlled by
the Israeli military has posted material
that is similar if not worse the images
have shocked overseas audiences but not
Palestinian ones that see them as a
reiteration scaled up of the displac M
and occupation they have known since
1948 we shouldn't fall into the Trap of
the newness because this is part of the
way that the Israeli regime treats
Palestinians from 48 this is not the
first time we saw them many times
throughout those 75 years these are
images that resonate for me with other
images images you know from the
Holocaust Palestinians were racialized
by the state of Israel uh in a way that
it was predicted that they will be
constantly concentrated and killed what
we see now is a change in the scale and
in the speed and circulation of images
that provoke rage and caused by uh
Millions around the world to stop this
genocide and they began sending these
messages to their own people if you
watch Israeli TV since this whole thing
started Channel 12 13 and 14 in
particular have done nothing but played
these videos in every TV program
political
debate they are trying to tell the
ordinary Israeli as a main target
audience do not worry everything is
under control we still command that kind
of relationship with the Palestinians
they are still humilated we are still in
charge
there will be one day right when the
Israelis will wake up to a reality that
they committed genocide so I think we
have to ask how those State apparatuses
like media like education are being
mobilized in order to uh lead to such a
genocide the channel run by the Army I
don't want to be shocked by this channel
because the state of Israel runs like
this channel
if that means defying a UN General
Assembly resolution calling for an
immediate ceasefire this week then so
be mainstream media Outlets outside of
Israel will also have some questions to
answer down the road potentially
difficult ones about complicity in the
Eraser of a people protesters demanding
and immediate ceasefire be they in the
UK France the us wherever complain that
mainstream news coverage in those
countries reliably reflects the
pro-israel position of the governments
involved and corporate news channels
that usually do not shy away from
shocking imagery not least because of
the ratings involved have been acting
somewhat out of character too often
they've had to be led to these stories
to disturbing dangerous newsworthy
images like these by the hand of social
media by the
people when we do see the mainstream
media covering these images it's really
only after several days of these stories
going viral on social media where you
almost see the mainstream media being
forced into covering these kinds of
stories the genocidal rhetoric uh within
Israeli society and pop culture that has
barely made a blip on the radar of the
mainstream media
instead the mainstream media focus on
the mass hysteria on college campuses
all right continuing with our big story
here today college campuses across the
country are divided over the Israel
Hamas War leadership surrounding whether
or not uh from the river to the sea or
certain chance for free Palestine or
genocidal or not there's this huge
disconnect between what we are
witnessing on social media the unfolding
of an actual genocide versus what we're
seeing on mainstream media trying to
appeal to the sensibilities and to the
some moral frame of reference to
mainstream media is a losing game uh
because by definition mainstream media
corporate media serves the interest of
Corporation of those in power those with
the money and the political cloud and
the relationship to the state system all
of these factors in the way we
understand and and communicate the world
to one another so expecting that
mainstream media is such going to wake
up to the atrocities being uh taking
place in Gaza is just not going to work
they do not exist for this kind of
[Music]
job the new york-based committee to
protect journalists has been tracking
the killing of media workers since 1992
and says of Gaza that it's never seen
anything like this Tarak NAFA is here
with more 89 journalists that's the
number killed by Israeli forces since
October 7th according to the government
media office in Gaza that's more than
one media worker killed every day
compare that to Ukraine where 17
journalists have been killed since the
War Began almost 2 years ago or
Afghanistan more media workers have been
killed in Gaza than Afghanistan has lost
since 2001 what's perhaps most
disturbing is the way that journalists
and their families are being targeted
threatened and killed this week Al jaaz
Arabic journalist Anessa Sharif buried
his father who is killed in an Israeli
air strike on the jabalia refugee camp
he revealed that prior to his father's
killing he had received threats from
isra minitary officers telling him to
stop his coverage and go
south the cpj says say there appears to
be a pattern of journalists in Gaza
receiving threats and subsequently their
family members being killed Israel has a
history of killing reporters then
obfuscating the facts around their
deaths in 2019 a un commission found
Israeli snipers had intentionally shot
and killed Palestinian journalists in
gaza's great March of return knowing
they were clearly recognizable as such
more recently Israeli forces in the
occupied West Bank killed Al jazer
journalist Sharin abaka then denied they
had done so before eventually admitting
she was shot but by accident the
deliberate targeting of journalists is a
war crime Israel denies doing that but
that fails to square with the
unprecedented Mass killing by Israeli
forces the testimonies we're hearing
from Gaza thanks dark since October 7th
little has been heard from Palestinian
citizens of Israel they are a sign
significant minority in the country
there are 2 million of them they're the
descendants of those who remained within
the borders of Israel following the mass
displacement of Palestinians in 1948
they are second class citizens there and
that has been made obvious over the past
two months hundreds have been arrested
for their social media posts criticizing
Israel's assault on Gaza demonstrations
by Palestinians demanding an end to the
war have been banned at right we have
spoken to a number of Palestinian
Israeli media figures about the
atmosphere of censorship suspicion and
repression most have turned down our
requests for interviews they fear the
repercussions for good reason one who
did agree to speak with us to provide
the listening post with a Palestinian
perspective of Life inside Israel these
days is Ramy Eunice he's a journalist
and former television
host I think think the best way to
describe what it feels like right now to
be a Palestinian citizen of Israel is
utter and complete paralysis it's just
like you
know let's start
again in Israel there are around N9 and
something million citizens people around
the world don't really know that but 20%
of Israel's population are Palestinians
technically we are Israelis we have
Israeli passports we have Israeli uh ID
cards we are citizens of Israel but I
think at the moment there's no shortage
of evidence that shows that for at least
20% of the population of this country it
doesn't feel like a democracy there's
always been restrictions on freedom of
expression and freedom of speech when it
comes to Palestinian citizens of Israel
but you know post October 7th was
probably one of the worst weeks of my
entire life uh the atmosphere was
terrifying uh horrifying there have been
few uh uh incidents and um few scenes on
Israeli media that I will never forget
my entire life I remember one guy
looking at the camera warning
Palestinian citizens of
Israel
I remember another incident where an
Israeli soldier was on TV with his army
uniform and he was talking to a
Palestinian journalist she was from the
Israeli Broadcasting Corporation she was
supposed to do like a small report on
Palestinian citizens of Israel and then
all of a sudden this guest on the panel
looks at her and says something
like
when the before times such monologues
would be labeled as you know Fringe and
maybe that you know TV personality would
get even
fired now it's mainstream there's one
channel channel 14 who makes uh Fox News
look like the most Progressive amazing
uh news channel in the world it's insane
what's happening there
[Music]
at the moment if you watch the most
popular uh uh TV channel in Israel
Channel 12 and if you watch after you
watch Channel 14 you w see many
differences Sim I think my greatest
disappointment is from harit to be
honest for years and years and years it
was I would argue the only real
respected uh media Outlet in Israel but
what happened after October 7th all of a
sudden you wake up you open the
newspaper and you see you know columns
and and and and articles and reports
calling for genocide even in harar some
of these people are my friends I thought
they were my friends I go to uh to their
social media and I see one of their
reporters just like sharing a photo of a
bomb signed by her I see other
journalists in that same Outlet making
jokes with their friends when they're
going to build their beach home after
they occupy Gaza and you know commit
genocide on the Palestinian people
that's not that's not funny that's not
funny that's really worrying and it's
really terrifying it's become insane I
mean I feel like there is no talking to
these
people so uh in terms of representation
of Palestinians or Palestinian
journalists or Palestinian like public
figures in Israeli media I'm talking
about before October 7th obviously on a
good day the representation was about 4%
4% of the interviewees were
Palestinians post October 7th I mean I
haven't seen any people you know being
invited to talk about what's happening
so it's not just we are afraid to share
our empathy and solidarity and our fear
we are also you know prevented
prohibited from talking about that
fear I was a host of a show that was
called on the other hand in Arabic on
the Israeli Public Broadcasting
Corporation and the sole aim of the show
was to just counter fake
news someone like me who's made a career
out of being critical out of exposing
fake news it does feel very very
paralyzing and it it's been causing me
um some form of an an identity crisis to
be honest not to be able to speak up
against what we're seeing on Israeli
media at the moment I haven't been
posting anything on my social media uh
by the way ever since ever since October
7th it doesn't feel safe
[Music]
anymore on October 7th i u woke up the
first thing I did was to call some of my
uh close friend Palestinian public
figures and the first thing I said was
you guys something weird is happening it
looks
horrifying please do not post anything
on social media social media is being
monitored so closely if you like the
wrong post if you share the wrong post
most likely most likely uh you will get
a knock on the door uh and they will
come and you know take you so uh just to
give you an example on the severity of
the level of
incitement uh against Palestinians in
Israeli social media at the moment uh
there's one group on telegram called
Nazi Hunters by Israeli right-wing
activists and what they do on this group
they put a picture of Palestinian
activists behind a snipers
lens and they write down your name what
you do where you work you don't want to
end up upon that group because you know
you're not going to get any protection
from the police in a reality where so
many Israelis carry guns in the streets
now and if they meet someone that
recognized from that group uh uh Nazi
Hunters it could become
catastrophic you have to not only
navigate the toxicity of Israeli media
the Israeli government and the Israeli
mainstream but you have to also be very
smart
uh and how you navigate the toxicity of
Israeli uh uh social
[Music]
media it's very hard to find Palestinian
you know uh public figures who are
willing to go on camera and I only
agreed to do this interview now or I
feel you know somewhat safer than in the
past you know a few weeks how long can
you stay silent and um again um as
someone who's been I'm a journalist I
made a career out of being you know
outspoken and critical um so this is the
time this is the time to speak up I
believe we need to find a way to
navigate this new reality that we have
to deal with now and we do need to find
new ways to keep telling our stories and
to keep you know exposing the the truth
and to push back against people who deny
the right
to know the
[Music]
truth finally a viewer messaged me on
Twitter a couple of weeks back about our
coverage of Gaza she wrote have been a
loyal Watcher of Al jazer for years but
as appalling as this war is there are
still other stories Good joural must
know this is too much now we are
conscious of the stories that we have
chosen to set aside as we go all in on
Gaza big stories
cop 28 Ukraine Sudan significant
elections in Argentina and Poland it is
a long list none of those stories are
about a genocide though that there is
still time to stop and the media angles
the coverage the way the narrative
around Gaza is framed is so Central to
the way that this story is understood
and misunderstood there is just two much
there for a program like ours this is
not the time for us to look away we'll
see you next time here at the listening
post